add move to cloud guide part 1 (#5058)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/guides/core-to-cloud-1.md

recently_updated: true
---
## Introduction

Moving from dbt Core to dbt Cloud streamlines analytics engineering workflows by allowing teams to develop, test, deploy, and explore data products using a single, fully managed service.

- dbt Cloud is the fastest and most reliable way to deploy dbt. Develop, test, deploy, and explore data products using a single, fully managed service. It also supports the [dbt Cloud IDE](/docs/cloud/dbt-cloud-ide/develop-in-the-cloud) or command line with [dbt Cloud CLI](/docs/cloud/cloud-cli-installation) for development, a [Semantic Layer](/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/dbt-sl) for consistent metrics, and domain ownership of data with multi-project “[dbt Mesh](/best-practices/how-we-mesh/mesh-1-intro)” setups.
  
  Learn more about [dbt Cloud features](/docs/cloud/about-cloud/dbt-cloud-features).

- dbt Core is an open-source tool that enables data teams to transform data following analytics engineering best practices using a command line interface. It must be self-hosted and maintained.

### What you'll learn

This guide outlines what you need to do in order to move from dbt Core to dbt Cloud and highlights the necessary technical changes: .

> - [Account setup](/guides/core-to-cloud-1?step=3#account-set-up): Learn how to create a dbt Cloud account, invite team members, and configure it for your team.

Author: these links aren't working, will remove/fix them

> - [Account set up](/guides/core-to-cloud-1?step=3#account-set-up): Learn how to create a dbt Cloud account, invite team members, and configure it for your team.

Author: the links to other parts of the page aren't working so will tweak them

- [Data platform setup](https://docs.getdbt.com/guides/core-to-cloud-1?step=5#data-platform-setup): Find out about connecting your data platform to dbt Cloud.
- [Git setup](https://docs.getdbt.com/guides/core-to-cloud-1?step=6#git-setup): Learn to link your dbt project's Git repository with dbt Cloud.
- [Developer setup:](https://docs.getdbt.com/guides/core-to-cloud-1?step=7#developer-setup) Understand the setup needed for developing in dbt Cloud.
- [Orchestration setup](https://docs.getdbt.com/guides/core-to-cloud-1?step=8#orchestration-setup): Learn how to prepare your dbt Cloud environment and jobs for orchestration.
- [Models configuration](https://docs.getdbt.com/guides/core-to-cloud-1?step=9#models-configuration): Get insights on validating and running your models in dbt Cloud, using either the dbt Cloud IDE or dbt Cloud CLI.
- [What's next?](https://docs.getdbt.com/guides/core-to-cloud-1?step=10#whats-next): Summarizes key takeaways and introduces what to expect in the following guides.

## Prerequisites

> - You have dbt Core installed.

Reviewer: You know what's funny? You actually don't need dbt Core installed. Just that you have an working dbt Core project. What are your thoughts on removing this?

Author: oh lol, gotcha! that makes sense and i guess it's also implied that if you have a core project, you have core installed. yes for sure will remove, thank you! 🙏

- Work with the [dbt Labs’ Professional Services](https://www.getdbt.com/dbt-labs/services) team to support your data organization and migration.

## Account setup
*Time to complete: Approximately 30 mins to 1 hour*

1. [Create your dbt Cloud account](https://www.getdbt.com/signup).

2. Learn about [access](/docs/cloud/manage-access/about-user-access) and [invite users](/docs/cloud/manage-access/about-user-access) to your dbt Cloud account and dbt Cloud project.

3. Configure [Single Sign-On (SSO)](/docs/cloud/manage-access/sso-overview) or [Role-based access control (RBAC)](/docs/cloud/manage-access/about-user-access#role-based-access-control) for easy and secure access. <Lifecycle status='enterprise' />
   - This removes the need to save passwords and secret environment variables locally.

4. In **Account settings**, switch on [partial parsing](/docs/deploy/deploy-environments#partial-parsing) to only reparse changed files, saving time.

5. In **Account settings**, enable [Git repo caching](/docs/deploy/deploy-environments#git-repository-caching) to ensure job reliability, protection from third-party outages, and performance. <Lifecycle status='enterprise' />

> ## Environment variables

Reviewer: Would it be helpful to guide the user to where they can find their environment variables (which I believe are only defined in the profiles.yml file)?

Reviewer: Also I don't think you can set these up until after you have made your connections so perhaps we should move it to after the `Developer` setup to make it more streamlined as a to-do flow

Author: amazing, yes will do! thank you @amychen1776 !

Author: folded in!

   - Once your full migration is complete, consider upgrading your environments to [Keep on latest version](/docs/dbt-versions/upgrade-dbt-version-in-cloud#keep-on-latest-version-) to always get the latest fixes and more.

3. **Connect to your data platform** &mdash; When using dbt Cloud, you can [connect to your data platform](/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/about-connections) directly in the UI and don't need a `profiles.yml` file. Each environment is roughly equivalent to an entry in your `profiles.yml` file.
4. **Development tools** &mdash; Set up your development workspace with the [dbt Cloud CLI](/docs/cloud/cloud-cli-installation) or [dbt Cloud IDE](/docs/cloud/dbt-cloud-ide/develop-in-the-cloud) to edit and develop your dbt code in your tool of choice.

### Advanced configuration
5. **Custom target names** &mdash; If you’re using a [`custom target.name`](/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/target) in your project, we recommend you set them using [environment variables](/docs/build/environment-variables). Alternatively, you can update it at the developer credentials level.

> 6. **API access** &mdash; Create [API auth tokens](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/authentication) and access to [dbt Cloud APIs](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/overview) as needed.  <Lifecycle status="team,enterprise" />

Reviewer: We should move API access to the orchestration section. Creating the developer environment should generally not need to touch the APIs but after you have orchestrated, that's when you need access to your APIs to either orchestrate the jobs or extract the metadata

---

> title: Move from dbt Core to dbt Cloud - Getting started

Reviewer 2: Not sure stylistically we should have dashes in the title. Maybe something like this (or other variations)
```suggestion
title: Get started with the move from dbt Core to dbt Cloud 
```

Author: not sure i'm a fan of this proposed one. we seem to have other characters (/ and -) on other guides. I think the existing version is clearer and matches the upcoming marketing site.

> title: Get started with the move from dbt Core to dbt Cloud 

Author: ```suggestion
title: Move from dbt Core to dbt Cloud - Get started
```

id: core-to-cloud-1
description: "Learn how to move from dbt Core to dbt Cloud and what you need to get started."

> hoverSnippet: "Use this guide to learn how to move from dbt Core to dbt Cloud."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
hoverSnippet: "Learn how to move from dbt Core to dbt Cloud."
```

icon: 'guides'
time_to_complete: 'Total estimated time: 3-4 hours'
hide_table_of_contents: true
tags: ['Migration','dbt Core','dbt Cloud']
level: 'Intermediate'
recently_updated: true
---
## Introduction

> Moving from dbt Core to dbt Cloud streamlines analytics engineering workflows by allowing teams to develop, test, deploy, and explore data products using a single, fully managed service.

Author: ```suggestion
Moving from dbt Core to dbt Cloud streamlines analytics engineering workflows by allowing teams to develop, test, deploy, and explore data products using a single, fully managed software service.
```

> Moving from dbt Core to dbt Cloud streamlines analytics engineering workflows by allowing teams to develop, test, deploy, and explore data products using a single, fully managed service.

Reviewer 2: Did we get stakeholders to sign-off on describing it as a "fully managed service"? We sell services separately and that line kind of indicates that maybe those services are included.
```suggestion
Moving from dbt Core to dbt Cloud streamlines analytics engineering workflows by allowing teams to develop, test, deploy, and explore data products using a single, fully managed service.
```

Author: i think this might have come from the team internally. i can double check with @azzam34

Author: confirmed with PMM that this is fine since service in this context is software as a service. will add the word software to clarify.

> - dbt Cloud is the fastest and most reliable way to deploy dbt. Develop, test, deploy, and explore data products using a single, fully managed service. It also supports: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
dbt Cloud is the fastest and most reliable way to deploy dbt. Develop, test, deploy, and explore data products using a single, fully managed service. It also supports: 
```

  - The [dbt Cloud IDE](/docs/cloud/dbt-cloud-ide/develop-in-the-cloud) or command line with [dbt Cloud CLI](/docs/cloud/cloud-cli-installation) for development
  - [dbt Semantic Layer](/docs/use-dbt-semantic-layer/dbt-sl) for consistent metrics
  - Domain ownership of data with multi-project [dbt Mesh](/best-practices/how-we-mesh/mesh-1-intro) setups
  - [dbt Explorer](/docs/collaborate/explore-projects) for easier data discovery and understanding
  
  Learn more about [dbt Cloud features](/docs/cloud/about-cloud/dbt-cloud-features).

> - dbt Core is an open-source tool that enables data teams to transform data following analytics engineering best practices using a command line interface. It must be self-hosted and maintained.

Reviewer 2: This might be better served with above the dbt Cloud line. Lead with what Core is (the assumption being the reader is already using it) and then follow with what dbt Cloud is and it's benefits. 
```suggestion
dbt Core is an open-source tool that enables data teams to transform data following analytics engineering best practices using a command line interface. It must be self-hosted and maintained.
```

> ### What you'll learn

Reviewer 2: Stylistically, we may want to avoid addressing the reader in the header. Maybe something like 
### Table of contents
### Agenda
or
### What is covered

Author: i thought so too but then i saw this in [unit test](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/build/unit-tests#before-you-begin) and assumed it wasn't an issue?

Reviewer 2: We should probably change that there too or get team consensus

Author: happy to add an issue to cover this! but it shouldn't be a blocker for this pr.

Author: added it to the docs sync: https://www.notion.so/dbtlabs/Docs-team-meeting-template-676bc701fd5b4a2b938879ef2482dbe8?pvs=4#a2cef8469f3547da8143fe71e708f899

> This guide outlines what you need to do in order to move from dbt Core to dbt Cloud and highlights the necessary technical changes:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This guide outlines the steps you need to take to move from dbt Core to dbt Cloud and highlights the necessary technical changes:
```

> - [Account setup](https://docs.getdbt.com/guides/core-to-cloud-1?step=3#account-setup): Learn how to create a dbt Cloud account, invite team members, and configure it for your team.

Author: note the pages are returning a 404 bc they don't exist yet

> - [Account setup](https://docs.getdbt.com/guides/core-to-cloud-1?step=3#account-setup): Learn how to create a dbt Cloud account, invite team members, and configure it for your team.

Reviewer 2: It's not a "need to have," but for a guide like this, it can be beneficial to the reader to be direct. Instead of "Discover" and "Learn how," tell the reader what they'll be doing:
"Manage environment variables in dbt Cloud"
"Connect your data platform to dbt Cloud"
They learn in our docs pages, the guides are about doing.

- [Data platform setup](https://docs.getdbt.com/guides/core-to-cloud-1?step=5#data-platform-setup): Find out about connecting your data platform to dbt Cloud.
- [Git setup](https://docs.getdbt.com/guides/core-to-cloud-1?step=6#git-setup): Learn to link your dbt project's Git repository with dbt Cloud.
- [Developer setup:](https://docs.getdbt.com/guides/core-to-cloud-1?step=7#developer-setup) Understand the setup needed for developing in dbt Cloud.
- [Orchestration setup](https://docs.getdbt.com/guides/core-to-cloud-1?step=8#orchestration-setup): Learn how to prepare your dbt Cloud environment and jobs for orchestration.
- [Models configuration](https://docs.getdbt.com/guides/core-to-cloud-1?step=9#models-configuration): Get insights on validating and running your models in dbt Cloud, using either the dbt Cloud IDE or dbt Cloud CLI.
- [What's next?](https://docs.getdbt.com/guides/core-to-cloud-1?step=10#whats-next): Summarizes key takeaways and introduces what to expect in the following guides.

## Prerequisites

> - You have an existing dbt Core project connected to a data platform and Git repository.

Author: ```suggestion
- You have an existing dbt Core project connected to a data platform and Git repository. 
  - Note, dbt Cloud can connect with a variety of data platform providers listed in the [Data platform setup](/guides/core-to-cloud-1?step=4) step.
```

> - You have an existing dbt Core project connected to a data platform and Git repository.

Reviewer 2: We probably need to call out that it has to be a data platform supported in dbt Cloud. We may want to list them to avoid confusion.

Author: i intentionally listed them out in the 'db setup section'. let me link to it so it's not duplicated.

Reviewer 2: I think it's important to call that out in the prerequisites so they don't get too far into their journey before they discover. Even if we just say
```suggestion
- You have an existing dbt Core project connected to a Git repository and data platform supported in [dbt Cloud](/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/about-connections).
```

> - You have an existing dbt Core project connected to a data platform and Git repository.

Reviewer 2: We'll also want to call out that it has to be a version >= 1.0

Author: we could! but aren't versions less than 1.0 deprecated anyway?

- You have a dbt Cloud account. **[Don't have one? Start your free trial today](https://www.getdbt.com/signup)**!

### Related docs
- [Learn dbt Cloud](https://courses.getdbt.com/collections)
- [Develop with dbt Cloud](/docs/cloud/about-develop-dbt)
- [Deploy jobs](/docs/deploy/deployments)
- Book [expert-led demos](https://www.getdbt.com/resources/dbt-cloud-demos-with-experts) and insights
- Work with the [dbt Labs’ Professional Services](https://www.getdbt.com/dbt-labs/services) team to support your data organization and migration.

## Account setup

1. [Create your dbt Cloud account](https://www.getdbt.com/signup).

2. Learn about [access](/docs/cloud/manage-access/about-user-access) and [invite users](/docs/cloud/manage-access/about-user-access) to your dbt Cloud account and dbt Cloud project.

> 3. Configure [Single Sign-On (SSO)](/docs/cloud/manage-access/sso-overview) or [Role-based access control (RBAC)](/docs/cloud/manage-access/about-user-access#role-based-access-control) for easy and secure access. <Lifecycle status='enterprise' />

Reviewer 2: Somewhere (maybe here, maybe elsewhere) we should call out that for these Enterprise features and if they remain on a Team or Developer plan after the trial period, they won't have access to some of these features.

Author: moved this over to slack

   - This removes the need to save passwords and secret environment variables locally.

> 4. In **Account settings**, switch on [partial parsing](/docs/deploy/deploy-environments#partial-parsing) to only reparse changed files, saving time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. In **Account settings**, enable [partial parsing](/docs/deploy/deploy-environments#partial-parsing) to only reparse changed files, saving time.
```

5. In **Account settings**, enable [Git repo caching](/docs/deploy/deploy-environments#git-repository-caching) to ensure job reliability, protection from third-party outages, and performance. <Lifecycle status='enterprise' />

## Data platform setup

> This section explains the considerations and methods to connect your data platform to dbt Cloud.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section outlines the considerations and methods to connect your data platform(s) to dbt Cloud.
```

> 1. Set up your [data platform connections](/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/about-connections) and [environment variables](/guides/core-to-cloud-1?step=4) in dbt Cloud. dbt Cloud can connect with a variety of data platform providers including:

Reviewer 2: Might help the experience if the links are consistent in their destinations rather than skipping them ahead in the guide. 

```suggestion
1. Set up your [data platform connections](/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/about-connections) and [environment variables](/docs/build/environment-variables) in dbt Cloud. dbt Cloud can connect with a variety of data platform providers including:
```

   - [AlloyDB](/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/connect-redshift-postgresql-alloydb) 
   - [Amazon Redshift](/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/connect-redshift-postgresql-alloydb) 
   - [Apache Spark](/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/connect-apache-spark) 
   - [Databricks](/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/connect-databricks) 
   - [Google BigQuery](/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/connect-bigquery)
   - [Microsoft Fabric](/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/connect-microsoft-fabric)
   - [PostgreSQL](/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/connect-redshift-postgresql-alloydb)
   - [Snowflake](/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/connect-snowflake)
   - [Starburst or Trino](/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/connect-starburst-trino)

2. You can verify your data platform connections by clicking the **Test connection** button in your deployment and development credentials settings.

> ### Advanced configuration

Reviewer 2: Stylistically, we may not want to put a third step under a different header. Maybe the header can be the lead in like this:
```suggestion
3. (Advanced configuration) Use [OAuth connections](/docs/cloud/manage-access/set-up-snowflake-oauth), which enables secure authentication using your data platform’s SSO.  <Lifecycle status='enterprise' />
```

Author: great suggestion! i think i prefer having a separate header so it's clear these are additional configs for users. have tweaked it though so it's a bullet :
![Screenshot 2024-03-14 at 11 48 15](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/assets/89008547/02f38cff-2344-4803-9b1f-d9ff9e23e773)
![Screenshot 2024-03-14 at 11 48 37](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/assets/89008547/1bb1524c-555a-4b86-b0b2-721251fb709a)

3. Use [OAuth connections](/docs/cloud/manage-access/set-up-snowflake-oauth), which enables secure authentication using your data platform’s SSO.  <Lifecycle status='enterprise' />

## Git setup

> Your existing dbt project source code should live in a Git repository. In this step, you should connect your existing dbt project source code from Git to dbt Cloud.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your existing dbt project source code should live in a Git repository. In this section, you will connect your existing dbt project source code from Git to dbt Cloud.
```

> 1. Ensure your dbt project is in a Git repository

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Ensure your dbt project is in a Git repository.
```

> 2. Once you’ve set up a dbt Cloud account, you can [connect and configure Git](/docs/cloud/git/git-configuration-in-dbt-cloud) in dbt Cloud to connect your Git repository:

Reviewer 2: They should already have a Cloud account by this step, it might be beneficial to use this step to tell them where to navigate to get to the git setup.
```suggestion
2. In **Account settings** select **Integrations** and [connect and configure Git](/docs/cloud/git/git-configuration-in-dbt-cloud) in dbt Cloud to connect your Git repository:
```

Author: added in

   - Connect with one of the [native integrations](/docs/cloud/git/git-configuration-in-dbt-cloud) in dbt Cloud (such as GitHub, GitLab, and Azure DevOps).
   - [Import a git repository](/docs/cloud/git/import-a-project-by-git-url) from any valid git URL that points to a dbt project.

> ### Advanced configuration

Reviewer 2: Same feedback as above - putting it under a different header makes it look out of place
```suggestion
3. (Advanced configuration) Log into dbt Cloud using [OAuth connections](/docs/cloud/git/connect-github) to integrate with your source code platform. It automatically links to the repository using one of the native integrations set at the account level. <Lifecycle status='enterprise' />
```

3. Log into dbt Cloud using [OAuth connections](/docs/cloud/git/connect-github) to integrate with your source code platform. It automatically links to the repository using one of the native integrations set at the account level. <Lifecycle status='enterprise' />
  

>   Set up groups for dbt project access with those configured for repository access to streamline permissions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Set up groups for dbt project access with those configured for repository access to streamline permissions.
```

Author: the indent is intentional so it lines up with the bullet point.

## Developer setup

This section highlights the development configurations you’ll need for your dbt Cloud project. The following categories are covered in this section:

- [dbt Cloud environments](/guides/core-to-cloud-1?step=7#dbt-cloud-environments)
- [Initial setup steps](/guides/core-to-cloud-1?step=7#initial-set-up-steps)
- [Advanced configuration](/guides/core-to-cloud-1?step=7#initial-set-up-steps)
- [dbt Cloud commands](/guides/core-to-cloud-1?step=7#dbt-cloud-commands)

### dbt Cloud environments

> The concept of a `target` in dbt Core is the same as a [dbt Cloud environment](/docs/environments-in-dbt).

Reviewer 2: Suggest reframin to switch the subject from Core (which they're leaving) to Cloud 
```suggestion
The concept of an [environment](/docs/environments-in-dbt) in dbt Cloud is the same as a `target` in dbt Core.
```

> The main difference between `target` in dbt Core and a dbt Cloud environment is that you can make these configurations through the dbt Cloud UI, as opposed to within your **`profiles.yml`** file.

Reviewer 2: Keeping the order the same as the examples so the former and latter match
```suggestion
The primary difference between a dbt Cloud environment and a `target` in dbt Core is that you can make these configurations through the dbt Cloud UI instead of within the `profiles.yml` file.
```

> This difference streamlines the process of switching between development, staging, and production contexts, removing the need to manually edit a **`profiles.yml`** file. dbt Cloud environments also integrate with additional features such as job scheduling, version control, and more, making it easier to manage the full lifecycle of your dbt projects within a single platform You can [set up](/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/target) or [customize](/docs/build/custom-target-names) target names in dbt Cloud.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This difference streamlines the process of switching between development, staging, and production contexts, removing the need to manually edit the `profiles.yml` file. dbt Cloud environments also integrate with additional features such as job scheduling, version control, and more, making it easier to manage the full lifecycle of your dbt projects within a single platform. You can [set up](/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/target) or [customize](/docs/build/custom-target-names) target names in dbt Cloud.
```

### Initial setup steps
1. **Set up development environment** &mdash; Set up your [development](/docs/dbt-cloud-environments#create-a-development-environment) environment and [development credentials](/docs/cloud/dbt-cloud-ide/develop-in-the-cloud#access-the-cloud-ide). You’ll need this to access your dbt project and start developing.

> 2. **dbt Core version** &mdash; In your dbt Cloud environment and credentials, use the same dbt Core version you use locally. You can run `dbt --version` in the command line to find out which version of dbt Core you’re using.

Reviewer 2: When will new accounts all be versionless? We may want to make a note to update this step after that date.
```suggestion
2. **dbt Core version** &mdash; In your dbt Cloud environment and credentials, use the same dbt Core version you use locally. You can run `dbt --version` in the command line to find out which version of dbt Core you’re using.
```

Author: yep for sure! this is a common issue users find themselves in when they're migrating per the smes so added this in as this is an important detail to note for them.

>    - Once your full migration is complete, consider upgrading your environments to [Keep on latest version](/docs/dbt-versions/upgrade-dbt-version-in-cloud#keep-on-latest-version-) to always get the latest fixes and more.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - Once your full migration is complete, consider upgrading your environments to [Keep on latest version](/docs/dbt-versions/upgrade-dbt-version-in-cloud#keep-on-latest-version-) to always get the latest features and more.
```

> 3. **Connect to your data platform** &mdash; When using dbt Cloud, you can [connect to your data platform](/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/about-connections) directly in the UI and don't need a `profiles.yml` file. Each environment is roughly equivalent to an entry in your `profiles.yml` file.

Reviewer 2: Might want to leave that last bit off and end with the solid "don't need a profiles.yml file 
```suggestion
3. **Connect to your data platform** &mdash; When using dbt Cloud, you can [connect to your data platform](/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/about-connections) directly in the UI and don't need a `profiles.yml` file.
```

4. **Development tools** &mdash; Set up your development workspace with the [dbt Cloud CLI](/docs/cloud/cloud-cli-installation) or [dbt Cloud IDE](/docs/cloud/dbt-cloud-ide/develop-in-the-cloud) to edit and develop your dbt code in your tool of choice.

### Advanced configuration

> 5. **Custom target names** &mdash; If you’re using a [`custom target.name`](/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/target) in your project, we recommend you set them using [environment variables](/docs/build/environment-variables). Alternatively, you can update it at the developer credentials level.

Reviewer 2: Same feedback as the other sections with a number under a new header

### dbt Cloud commands
6. Review the [dbt commands](/reference/dbt-commands) supported for dbt Cloud development. For example, `dbt debug` isn’t needed in dbt Cloud since the UI displays logs for your viewing.

## Environment variables

> This section will help you understand how to manage environment variables in dbt Cloud and how to set them up for your project. The following categories are covered in this section:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section will help you understand how to set up and manage dbt Cloud environment variables for your project. The following categories are covered:
```

- [Environment variables in dbt Cloud](/guides/core-to-cloud-1?step=7#environment-variables-in-dbt-cloud)

> - [dbt Cloud environment variables order of precedence](/guides/core-to-cloud-1?step=7#dbt-cloud-environment-variables-order-of-precedence)

Reviewer 2: Should the links here go to specific docs sections rather than skip ahead in the guide?

Author: they should be linking to specific sections on that same page (the env var page) - is that not what you're seeing?

Reviewer 2: I see that, but would the links here be better served getting them to the docs pages with those features, rather than skipping to a point in the guide that they'll naturally progress towards? Not a blocker by any means

Author: oh got got it. yea my intention here is just to summarize the headers here since we don't have a right toc - and i'd rather not have the users leave the actual guide at this point. however, i do link to the actual docs pages for those features!

- [Set environment variables in dbt Cloud](/guides/core-to-cloud-1?step=7#set-environment-variables-in-dbt-cloud)

In dbt Core, environment variables, or the [`env_var` function](/reference/dbt-jinja-functions/env_var), are defined in the `profiles.yml` file.
In dbt Cloud, you can set [environment variables](/docs/build/environment-variables) in the dbt Cloud user interface (UI). Read [Set up environment variables](#set-environment-variables-in-dbt-cloud) for more info.

### Environment variables in dbt Cloud
  - dbt Cloud environment variables must be prefixed with `DBT_` (including `DBT_ENV_CUSTOM_ENV_` or `DBT_ENV_SECRET_`).

>   - If your dbt Core environment variables don’t follow this naming convention, perform a “find and replace” in your project to make sure all references to these environment variables contain the proper naming conventions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - If your dbt Core environment variables don’t follow this naming convention, perform a [“find and replace”](/docs/cloud/dbt-cloud-ide/develop-in-the-cloud#dbt-cloud-ide-features) in your project to make sure all references to these environment variables contain the proper naming conventions.
```

- dbt Cloud secures environment variables, offering additional measures for sensitive values, such as prefixing keys with `DBT_ENV_SECRET_` to obscure them in logs and the UI.

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/Environment Variables/project-environment-view.png" title="Setting project level and environment level values"/>

### dbt Cloud environment variables order of precedence

> Environment variables in dbt Cloud are managed with a clear order of precedence, allowing users to define values at four levels (highest to lowest order of precedence):

Reviewer 2: If you choose not to put the links in the earlier section, this could also work
```suggestion
Environment variables in dbt Cloud are managed with a clear [order of precedence](/docs/build/environment-variables#setting-and-overriding-environment-variables), allowing users to define values at four levels (highest to lowest order of precedence):
```

>    - The job level (job override) or in the IDE for an individual developer (personal override). _(Highest precedence)_

Reviewer 2: Might want to avoid back-to-back ()
```suggestion
   - The job level (job override) or in the IDE for an individual developer (personal override). _Highest precedence_
```

   - The environment level, which can be overridden by the job level or personal override.
   - A project-wide default value, which can be overridden by the environment level, job level, or personal override.

>    - The optional default argument supplied to the `env_var` Jinja function in code. _(Lowest precedence)_

Reviewer 2: Keeping consistent with the above
```suggestion
   - The optional default argument supplied to the `env_var` Jinja function in the code. _Lowest precedence_
```

  
<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/Environment Variables/env-var-precdence.png" title="Environment variables order of precedence"/>

### Set environment variables in dbt Cloud

- To set these variables for an entire project or specific environments, navigate to **Deploy** > **Environments** > **Environment variables** tab.
- To set these variables at the job level, navigate to **Deploy** > **Jobs** > **Select your job** > **Settings** > **Advanced settings**.
- To set these variables at the personal override level, navigate to **Profile Settings** > **Credentials** > **Select your project** > **Environment variables**.

## Orchestration setup

This section outlines the considerations and methods to set up your dbt Cloud environments and jobs for orchestration. The following categories are covered in this section:

- [dbt Cloud environments](/guides/core-to-cloud-1?step=8#dbt-cloud-environments-1)
- [Initial setup steps](/guides/core-to-cloud-1?step=8#initial-set-up-steps-1)
- [Additional configurations](/guides/core-to-cloud-1?step=8#additional-configurations)

> - [CI/CD setup](/guides/core-to-cloud-1?step=8#cicd-set-up)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [CI/CD setup](/docs/deploy/ci-jobs)
```

Author: the rest of the links link to the sections of the same page so changed it to the ci/cd section of the page, rather than the actual docs page. the docs page is already linked in that section 

![Screenshot 2024-03-14 at 12 03 01](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/assets/89008547/3ca505b5-a9b3-4d1f-a311-e2c5bad96107)

   - [Starburst or Trino](/docs/cloud/connect-data-platform/connect-starburst-trino)

2. You can verify your data platform connections by clicking the **Test connection** button in your deployment and development credentials settings.

### Additional configuration
- Use [OAuth connections](/docs/cloud/manage-access/set-up-snowflake-oauth), which enables secure authentication using your data platform’s SSO.  <Lifecycle status='enterprise' />

## Git setup

Your existing dbt project source code should live in a Git repository. In this section, you will connect your existing dbt project source code from Git to dbt Cloud.

1. Ensure your dbt project is in a Git repository.

2. In **Account settings**, select **Integrations**, and [connect and configure Git](/docs/cloud/git/git-configuration-in-dbt-cloud) in dbt Cloud to connect your Git repository:
   - Connect with one of the [native integrations](/docs/cloud/git/git-configuration-in-dbt-cloud) in dbt Cloud (such as GitHub, GitLab, and Azure DevOps).
   - [Import a Git repository](/docs/cloud/git/import-a-project-by-git-url) from any valid Git URL that points to a dbt project.

### Additional configuration

> - Log into dbt Cloud using [OAuth connections](/docs/cloud/git/connect-github) to integrate with your source code platform. It automatically links to the repository using one of the native integrations set at the account level. <Lifecycle status='enterprise' />

Reviewer 2: Does this need to be a bullet point? It's under a different header and it doesn't line up with the bullets under #2 if it's supposed to be a part of that I think we should remove the header and line it up, otherwise we can probably remove the bullet and make it a paragraph

Author: it's an optional config so it is a step for those that are enterprise. that's why i initially had it as a numbered bullet. i think removing the header hides it a little and i'd like to make this optional config more visible. maybe i can combine both and number it as a 1:

### Additional configuration
1. Log into dbt Cloud using [OAuth connections](/docs/cloud/git/connect-github) to integrate with your source code platform. It automatically links to the repository using one of the native integrations set at the account level. <Lifecycle status='enterprise' />

Reviewer 2: That works for me!

  
<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/Environment Variables/env-var-precdence.png" title="Environment variables order of precedence"/>

### Set environment variables in dbt Cloud

- To set these variables for an entire project or specific environments, navigate to **Deploy** > **Environments** > **Environment variables** tab.
- To set these variables at the job level, navigate to **Deploy** > **Jobs** > **Select your job** > **Settings** > **Advanced settings**.
- To set these variables at the personal override level, navigate to **Profile Settings** > **Credentials** > **Select your project** > **Environment variables**.

## Orchestration setup

This section outlines the considerations and methods to set up your dbt Cloud environments and jobs for orchestration. The following categories are covered in this section:

- [dbt Cloud environments](/guides/core-to-cloud-1?step=8#dbt-cloud-environments-1)
- [Initial setup steps](/guides/core-to-cloud-1?step=8#initial-set-up-steps-1)
- [Additional configurations](/guides/core-to-cloud-1?step=8#additional-configurations)
- [CI/CD setup](/guides/core-to-cloud-1?step=8#cicd-set-up)

### dbt Cloud environments

> To use the [dbt Cloud's scheduler](/docs/deploy/job-scheduler), set up one environment as the production environment. This would be the [deployment](/docs/deploy/deploy-environments) environment. You can set up multiple environments for different stages of your deployment pipeline, such as development, staging/QA, and production.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use the [dbt Cloud's scheduler](/docs/deploy/job-scheduler), set up one environment as the production environment. This is the [deployment](/docs/deploy/deploy-environments) environment. You can set up multiple environments for different stages of your deployment pipeline, such as development, staging/QA, and production.
```

### Initial setup steps

> 1. **dbt Core version** &mdash; In your environment settings, configure dbt Cloud with the same dbt Core version.

Reviewer 2: Same note as further up that we may need to come back and update this step when all new Cloud accounts are versionless (and can't go back)

>    - Once your full migration is complete, consider upgrading your environments to [Keep on latest version](/docs/dbt-versions/upgrade-dbt-version-in-cloud#keep-on-latest-version-) to always get the latest fixes and more.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - Once your full migration is complete, we recommend upgrading your environments to [Keep on latest version](/docs/dbt-versions/upgrade-dbt-version-in-cloud#keep-on-latest-version-) to always get the latest features and more.
```

> 2. **[Configure your jobs](/docs/deploy/deploy-jobs)** &mdash; You can create jobs for automated or event-driven dbt jobs. You can use cron execution, manual, pull requests, or API triggers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. **[Configure your jobs](/docs/deploy/deploy-jobs)** &mdash; Create jobs for automated or event-driven dbt jobs. You can use cron execution, manual, pull requests, or API triggers.
```

   - Note that alongside [dbt Cloud](/docs/deploy/jobs), discover other ways to schedule and run your dbt jobs with the help of tools. Refer to [Integrate with other tools](/docs/deploy/deployment-tools) for more information.

> ### Additional configurations

Reviewer 2: Same feedback as above with the headers in the middle of numbered lists

> 3. **Custom target names** &mdash; You should set a `custom target.name` for every single [corresponding dbt Cloud job](/docs/build/custom-target-names). We recommend modifying the code to use [environment variables](/docs/build/environment-variables) instead since those can be set at the environment level.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. **Custom target names** &mdash; Set a `custom target.name` for every single [corresponding dbt Cloud job](/docs/build/custom-target-names). We recommend modifying the code to use [environment variables](/docs/build/environment-variables) instead since those can be set at the environment level.
```

7. **API access** &mdash; Create [API auth tokens](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/authentication) and access to [dbt Cloud APIs](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/overview) as needed.  <Lifecycle status="team,enterprise" />

8. **dbt Explorer** &mdash; If you use [dbt Explorer](/docs/collaborate/explore-projects) and run production jobs with an external orchestrator, ensure your production jobs run `dbt run` or `dbt build` to update and view resources and its metadata in dbt Explorer. Running `dbt compile` will not update resources and its metadata. <Lifecycle status="team,enterprise" />

### CI/CD setup

Building a custom solution to efficiently check code upon pull requests is complicated. With dbt Cloud, you can enable [continuous integration / continuous deployment (CI/CD)](/docs/deploy/continuous-integration) and configure dbt Cloud to run your dbt projects in a temporary schema when new commits are pushed to open pull requests. 

This build-on-PR functionality is a great way to catch bugs before deploying to production, and an essential tool for data practitioners.

> 1. Set up an integration with a native git application (such as Azure DevOps, GitHub, GitLab) and a CI environment in dbt Cloud.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Set up an integration with a native Git application (such as Azure DevOps, GitHub, GitLab) and a CI environment in dbt Cloud.
```

2. Create [a CI/CD job](/docs/deploy/ci-jobs) to optimize workflows.
3. Run your jobs in a production environment to fully implement CI/CD. Future pull requests will also leverage the last production runs to compare against.

## Models configuration

> In this section, you’ll be able to validate whether your models run or compile correctly in your development tool of choice: [dbt Cloud IDE](/docs/cloud/dbt-cloud-ide/develop-in-the-cloud) or [dbt Cloud CLI](/docs/cloud/cloud-cli-installation).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this section, you’ll be able to validate whether your models run or compile correctly in your development tool of choice: The [dbt Cloud IDE](/docs/cloud/dbt-cloud-ide/develop-in-the-cloud) or [dbt Cloud CLI](/docs/cloud/cloud-cli-installation).
```

You’ll want to make sure you set up your [development environment and credentials](#developer-set-up).

> 1. In your [development tool](/docs/cloud/about-develop-dbt) of choice, you can review your dbt project and ensure your project is set up correctly and you’re able to run commands. This means:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In your [development tool](/docs/cloud/about-develop-dbt) of choice, you can review your dbt project and ensure your project is set up correctly and you’re able to run commands. This will:
```

   - Make sure your project compiles correctly.
   - Run a few models in the dbt Cloud IDE or dbt Cloud CLI to ensure you’re experiencing accurate results in development.

2. Once your first job has successfully run in your production environment, use [dbt Explorer](/docs/collaborate/explore-projects) to view your project's [resources](/docs/build/projects) (such as models, tests, and metrics) and their [lineage](/terms/data-lineage) to gain a better understanding of its latest production state. <Lifecycle status="team,enterprise" />

## What’s next?

import ConfettiTrigger from '/src/components/confetti/index.js';

<ConfettiTrigger>

> Congrats on completing the first part of your move to dbt Cloud 🎉! 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Congratulations on completing the first part of your move to dbt Cloud 🎉! 
```

> You should have learned:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You have learned:
```

- How to set up your dbt Cloud account

> - Connect your data platform and Git repository

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- How to connect your data platform and Git repository
```

> - Configure your development, orchestration, and CI/CD environments

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- How to configure your development, orchestration, and CI/CD environments
```

> - You’ve also set up your models and are ready to run your first job in dbt Cloud.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You’ve also set up your models and are ready to run your first job in dbt Cloud.
```

> For next steps, we'll soon share other guides on how to manage your move and tips/faqs. Stay tuned!

Reviewer 2: The likelihood of them coming back here for updates is probably pretty slim. Maybe as a placeholder we can take them to the general guides page and suggest they take a look around.

Author: yea i added this as a placeholder for me to add the other remaining guides. so the idea is to let users know that we will provide supporting documents soon, and then i come back and add those documents under #related docs.
